# Exploring Explainable Features for AI Western Blot Detection





**TL;DR:** This repository provides an analysis and implements various explainable features to detect AI-generated Western blots. It also explores how to attribute these AI-generated Western blots to the models that produced them.

The ease of using generative AI models has enabled non-experts in computer science to create their own data. While these models have many beneficial applications, there is a serious concern in the scientific community about their use in generating fake images and texts.

In this context, our work aims to detect fake scientific images generated by cutting-edge AI models using explainable solutions. Besides proposing detection methods, we also evaluate existing and new solutions to trace the source of these AI-generated images. This attribution task is crucial for identifying systematic production of AI images, such as in the case of paper mills. Understanding which models a paper mill uses can help track the organizations and individuals involved in scientific misconduct.

All the proposed solutions are organized in the **code** directory.



### Dataset

We are releasing all datasets used in this research. Please refer to the README file in the **data** directory for access to the datasets.

### Quick Run

To reproduce our experiments and figures (as detailed in our article), follow these instructions:

Run the following commands in the /exps directory.

1. Install requirements:

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. Extract features for all dataset:

   ```
   ./extract_feats.sh
   ```

   After running this command, you should see the following pickle files in the experiment directory: `dinov1`, `dinov2`, `clip`, `fft_peak`, `patch_fft_peak`, `glcm`, and `fft_glcm` .

3. Run experiments:

   ````
   run_experiments.sh
   ````

   After running this command, you should see `closed_set`, `open_set`, and `attribution` CSV files containing the results for each type of residuum extraction and each feature explored during our experiments.





### Citation





### Contact

If you find any issues or bugs, or want to discuss the methods and possible improvements for detecting AI-generated scientific images, please do not hesitate to open an issue.

